# Development

## CLI & Automation

### API Tests

```bash
git clone <project_git_uri>
cd <project_dir>/
npm install
npm run test # run all API tests
    # each test file can be run standalone and will not share memory (the `global`
    # object for example) with other test files; this explains the multiple `test:...`
    # entries of the `scripts` object in `package.json`, instead of a single
    # entry as follows for example:
    #     `"test": "echo Running tests... && mocha ./tests/_index.js ./tests/jsu*.js && echo Finished!"`
```

### Advanced checks (not optional, complement API tests)

After `npm install`, the following commands can be considered, the most
important being labeled "key".

Browser-specific tests
- `npm run browser:gen-tests`: generate browser-specific tests from CLI-oriented
ones; the tests are generated in a dedicated directory and can be run in a web
browser via `tests_browserified/index.html`.
- `npm run browser:check-tests`: check browser-specific tests from the CLI,
assuming they have already been generated. While this is essential in an
automated workflow, it is recommended to also run the tests from a real web
browser to ensure that they do not fail due to memory leak warnings displayed by
mocha (our testing framework), as these warnings are not generated by the CLI.
- `npm run browser:run-tests`: generate and check browser-specific tests from
the CLI.

More checks
- `npm run code:check-scripts`: check all build scripts.
- `npm run code:check-sources`: validate source code; e.g. check that the
correct version of ECMAScript is targeted.
- `npm run code:gen-main-test-coverage`: run tests excluding browser-specific
ones to generate informative code coverage in the `coverage` directory.
- `npm run code:check-state` (**key**): validate source code and run all kinds
of tests, including code coverage generation; this is the command to use in
GitLab CI/CD continuous integration for example.

### Cleaning generated data

- `npm run clean`: delete any data that may have been generated by the above `npm run xxx`
commands.

## Dependencies

We use the following Node.js packages which were all installed using `npm install <package> --save-dev`.

### Tests

- mocha for testing.
- sinon for spies, stubs and mocks.
- jsdom to imitate in a Node.js environment the behavior of a browser.
- nyc to generate code coverage from tests; outputs to `.nyc_output` and `coverage`
by default.
- browser-or-node to trigger different test routines for Node.js and web
browsers for example.
- browserify to generate browser-specific versions of test scripts.
- karma to run browser-specific tests from the CLI, and some karma-xxx plugins
installed as npm packages.

### Others

- jshint for assurance on supported ECMAScript specifications; implicitly uses
the linting options defined in `.jshintrc`.
